outside-design/docs/index.md, before:

# Ȯutside Design Documentation

Welcome to the design documentation for the **Outside** game project.

This documentation contains our design process, component library, and style guidelines.

## Documentation Sections

### [Questions](/questions/)

Before writing a pitch, a process of asking questions, looking for possible answers and formulating hypothesis is often necessary.

### [Pitches](/pitches/)

Proposals for new features, game mechanics or anything that should be considered as improvements in the game.

### 🎨 [Design Process](/design-process/)

Learn about our design methodology, research findings, and ideation process.

## Quick Start

This documentation is built with [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/).

**Run locally:**
```bash
pnpm dev
```

**Build for production:**
```bash
pnpm build
```

## Project Structure

```
outside-design/
├── docs/
│   ├── design-process/    # Design methodology and process
│   ├── components/        # Component library
│   └── style-guide/       # Design tokens and guidelines
└── public/                # Static assets
```

---

*Last updated: 2024*

Commit message:

docs(design): Update documentation pages
- Update index page
- Update pitches page
- Update questions page

outside-design/docs/index.md, after:

# Ȯutside Design Documentation

Welcome to the design documentation for the **Outside** game project.

## On The Meaning of "Design"

Here, the word design is not limited to graphical or UI design. Rather, it is the exercise of design is the broadest sense possible, without artificial partitions.

I believe this cohesive approach to documenting all aspects of the design process, without the typical departmental separations will be "a less efficient but more human way" to do things moving forward.

## Documentation Sections

### [Questions](/questions/)

Before writing a pitch, a process of asking questions, looking for possible answers and formulating hypothesis is often necessary.

### [Pitches](/pitches/)

Proposals for new features, game mechanics or anything that should be considered as improvements in the game.

### 🎨 [Design Process](/design-process/)

Learn about our design methodology, research findings, and ideation process.

## Quick Start

This documentation is built with [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/).

**Run locally:**
```bash
pnpm dev
```

**Build for production:**
```bash
pnpm build
```

## Project Structure

```
outside-design/
├── docs/
│   ├── design-process/    # Design methodology and process
│   ├── components/        # Component library
│   └── style-guide/       # Design tokens and guidelines
└── public/                # Static assets
```

---

*Last updated: 2024*
