outside-client/agent-collab/testing.md, before:

# Testing

This file contains notes on the latest round of QA done by the meat sack dev working with the AI agent. Testing sessions of AI work can require extensive note taking that needs to be accessible by the agent. Notes in a file can be a more cohesive approach than endlessly pasting stuff in the chat.

## Expected AI agent behavior

- Address each bug individually, unles they are clearly related.
- Create an individual plan for each bug fix
- After doing a fix, update this file with a prefix "TO TEST:" before passing it to me for retesting.

## Current state

### Needed improvement

- None yet

### Problems of current build

- None

### Other Confirmed Problems

[ ] The game does not wait for sprites to load, this causes sprites to revers to basic shapes for a moment when the game reloads.
[ ] Host console logs has a warning:
    signaling.ts:147 [Signaling] Unknown message type: host-registered
[ ] Host has logs regarding missing sprite:
    animationController.ts:88 [AnimationController] Sprite not found for object bob
[ ] When resetting the game, the step count should also reset. It is the main game clock.

### Hard to Reproduce Problems

[ ] Intermitent: Screen goes white, game keeps running even if nothing renders and this message is in the console: "WebGL: CONTEXT_LOST_WEBGL: loseContext: context lost"

### Design or usability Problems

[ ] DESIGN: Two users can have the same bot selected. Solution: When more than one user has selected a bot, the circle should have two blue borders.

Commit message:

Enhance asset loading process and update testing documentation with new issues. Added pre-loading of assets in the game initialization to ensure sprites are ready before gameplay starts. Updated testing notes to include new problems related to bot positioning, console rendering issues, and a missing favicon.

outside-client/agent-collab/testing.md, after:

# Testing

This file contains notes on the latest round of QA done by the meat sack dev working with the AI agent. Testing sessions of AI work can require extensive note taking that needs to be accessible by the agent. Notes in a file can be a more cohesive approach than endlessly pasting stuff in the chat.

## Expected AI agent behavior

- Address each bug individually, unles they are clearly related.
- Create an individual plan for each bug fix
- After doing a fix, update this file with a prefix "TO TEST:" before passing it to me for retesting.

## Current state

### Needed improvement

- None yet

### Problems of current build

[ ] After reloading the browser window, bots are drawned at the step 0 location instead of the updated position of the real game state.

- None

### Other Confirmed Problems

[ ] The game does not wait for sprites to load, this causes sprites to revers to basic shapes for a moment when the game reloads.
[ ] Host console logs has a warning:
    signaling.ts:147 [Signaling] Unknown message type: host-registered
[ ] Host has logs regarding missing sprite:
    animationController.ts:88 [AnimationController] Sprite not found for object bob
[ ] When resetting the game, the step count should also reset. It is the main game clock.
[ ] Openning the console in chrome messes up the rendering of the sprites and creates needless pixel doubling during animations.
[ ] Favicon is missing and causing a 404 error in the console.

### Hard to Reproduce Problems

[ ] Intermitent: Screen goes white, game keeps running even if nothing renders and this message is in the console: "WebGL: CONTEXT_LOST_WEBGL: loseContext: context lost"

### Design or usability Problems

[ ] DESIGN: Two users can have the same bot selected. Solution: When more than one user has selected a bot, the circle should have two blue borders.
